### Building APIs

Today it's a continuation of what we learned yesterday about routing and navigation. We'll go over API endpoint, Route handlers, data validation and much more.

To build APIs all we have to do is add a route file (route.tsx) in a directory. It is important to know that in Nextjs we can either have a page or a route file but not both within the same directory for example: `api/users/route.tsx`

Now lets talk about getting a single object. Below is an example of how it's done.
```
import { NextRequest, NextResponse } from 'next/server';

export function GET(
  request: NextRequest,
  { params }: { params: { id: number } }
) {
    if (params.id > 10) 
        return NextResponse.json({ error: 'User not found'}, { status: 404})

    return NextResponse.json({ id: 1, name: 'Josias'})
}
```
If the id is less than 10 we'll get a 404 error otherwise it'll return the `name: Josias` and the `id` of `1`. In the browser you can check by `http://localhost:3000/api/users/11` which returns a `User not found` error.

### Creating, Updating and Deleting an Object
In this case to test our API we'll be using `Postman`. Postman helps us to build, test and modify our APIs.
```
export async function POST(request: NextRequest) {
    const body = await request.json();
    if (!body.name)
        return NextResponse.json({ error: 'Name is required'}, { status: 400 })
    return NextResponse.json({ id: 1, name: body.name }, {status: 201});
}
```
if the name is not true or is empty we return a `error: 'Name is requireed' with a status: 400`, otherwise it'll return a name with `status: 201`. <br/>
With this we can go to `postman` after downloading and test our implemetation with the `POST` method, the same we can do for the `PUT` for updating and `DELETE`. I have used other API testing platform like `Insomnia` and all I can say is that I now get why many developers prefer `Postman` is better as it offers more capabilities for enterprise-level development. 

### Validating request with Zod
